When is tears of the kingdom release date?
answer: Tears of the kingdom release date is May 12, 2023.

The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom is coming to Nintendo Switch on May 12. It’ll cost $69.99, the first first-party Nintendo Switch game to carry that higher-than-normal price. A $129.99 collector’s edition will be available on that day, too. It includes a physical copy of Tears of the Kingdom, an art book, SteelBook case, an Iconart steel poster, and four pins.

When Breath of the Wild was released in 2017, it launched on Nintendo Switch as a launch title as well as Wii U. Tears of the Kingdom will only be released on Nintendo Switch.

WILL AMIIBO WORK WITH TEARS OF THE KINGDOM?
Yes, although we have a suspicion that Nintendo hasn’t shared all of the details on amiibo Tears of the Kingdom compatibility. We know that scanning certain Zelda amiibo will change the design of your glider, but perhaps there will be other functionality announced closer to the game’s release date.

Nintendo will also release a new amiibo figure of Link as he appears in Tears of the Kingdom, and you can already pre-order it.

The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom is the twentieth main installment in The Legend of Zelda series.[2] The game was released on May 12, 2023 on the Nintendo Switch.[3]An unknown period of time after the events of Breath of the Wild, Link and Zelda are exploring a secret passage hidden beneath Hyrule Castle. Although King Rhoam had warned Zelda in the past that not even the royal family was to go there, she believes that what lies beneath is connected to the strange phenomenon spreading throughout Hyrule known only as "Gloom". As they travel, they find ancient ruins that Zelda identifies as being of Zonai origin. They eventually find a mural depicting a great war against the being called "the Demon King", the stories of which had been passed down by the royal family. Another mural shows the Zonai descending from the sky, which causes Zelda to realize that the "gods" that descended from the heavens to found the royal family must have been the Zonai.

In the deepest chamber, Link and Zelda find an ancient mummy emanating Gloom bound by a disembodied arm. As they enter, the arm falls off and drops a teardrop-shaped gem. As Zelda picks it up, the mummy comes to life and strikes with a surge of Gloom. Link blocks the attack with the Master Sword, but the dark power decays the blade, saps Link's strength, and leaves his right arm blackened and lifeless. The mummy reveals that he knows Link and Zelda and mocks the former's inability to harm him, mentioning that someone called "Rauru" had entrusted him with something.

The mummy sends a surge of Gloom that causes Hyrule Castle to rise into the sky before falling deep underground. Zelda falls into a chasm as well, only to disappear in a flash of light. Link nearly falls in as well, but he is grabbed by the disembodied arm and teleported away. When he reawakens, he finds that the arm has replaced his own. A voice says that Zelda had told him about Link, and that Link's arm had to be replaced to ensure he did not die from his injuries. Recovering the remains of the Master Sword, he leaves the chamber he woke up in to find himself on an island floating in the sky. He descends to another island, meeting a Steward Construct who gives him Zelda's Purah Pad at her request. It directs Link to the Temple of Time, but upon reaching it Link finds that he cannot enter. He then meets a ghostly figure identifying himself as Rauru, who informs Link that the arm he now possesses was once his own and that its power might be restored if Link visits three of the shrines on the island and gain their sacred light. After opening the gate, Link finds a larger teardrop-shaped gem that changes into an apparition of Zelda, granting him the Recall power before vanishing. Link's path is then blocked by a second sealed door, which he lacks the vitality to open. Rauru advises Link to visit the island's last shrine and offer it to their Goddess Statue, which will restore some of the vitality he lost to the Gloom. After doing so, Link is able to open the door. Rauru advises Link to continue visiting shrines to recover his strength before passing on, telling Link that it will be up to him to aid Zelda.

At the highest point of the Temple, Link finds a glowing light that reacts with the Master Sword. Placing it into the light, the Sword vanishes and is received by Zelda in an unknown location. Link spots a dragon, which parts the clouds beneath the island to reveal the kingdom of Hyrule beneath it. He receives a telepathic message from Zelda asking him to find her, beginning his quest to save Hyrule once again.

Gameplay
The gameplay of Tears of the Kingdom is similar to its predecessor. Additions include rail grinding and mechanical transport that Link can build using the Ultrahand ability, including a car, mech, boats, and numerous other things! Link can use the Fuse ability to fuse weapons with objects to make them stronger, he can also fuse things with his shield and arrows. In the March 28, 2023 gameplay, Eiji Aonuma showed off four new runes: Recall, Fuse, Ultrahand, and Ascend.[4]

Development
Development of the twentieth game in The Legend of Zelda series began in 2017 after the production for Breath of the Wild concluded.[5] During the E3 2019 Nintendo Direct, it was announced that it would be a sequel to Breath of the Wild.[6][2] The idea of creating a direct sequel came from the fact that Eiji Aonuma, producer of Breath of the Wild, wanted to revisit the same Hyrule while incorporating a new story and gameplay mechanics.[1] Initially, new ideas were thought of for DLC but evolved into a new game when too many were gathered.[7]

During the announcement of Hyrule Warriors: Age of Calamity on September 8, 2020, Eiji Aonuma said that Nintendo was still working on the game and that the fans would have to wait before getting any news. Later, in a December interview, Nintendo of America president Doug Bowser added that the contents of the game would be shown when they felt they had enough to show.[8]

The second trailer and first gameplay showcase aired on June 15th, 2021, during the E3 2021 Nintendo Direct.[9] A portion of gameplay was shown, featuring a number of abilities and the new world of Hyrule. An estimated release date for the game was also announced to be sometime during 2022.

On March 29, 2022, Nintendo released a video where Eiji Aonuma announced that development time had been extended, with the game being set to release in the spring of 2023. A short gameplay clip was premiered that showcased Link's new outfit and a heavily damaged Master Sword.[3]

The third trailer for the game was shown in the September 13, 2022 Nintendo Direct, where the title, The Legend of Zelda: Tears of the Kingdom, and release date, May 12, 2023, were revealed.[10] However, Nintendo UK did not livestream the Nintendo Direct as a mark of respect during the national period of mourning for Queen Elizabeth II.[11] Nintendo UK later acknowledged the announcement in a Twitter post on October 3rd.[12]

Development on the game was confirmed to be complete on March 28, 2023.

Reception
This section of the page is incomplete. You can help Zelda Wiki by expanding it.
The announcement of Tears of the Kingdom under the name "Breath of the Wild 2" which Nintendo Called at the time "The Sequel to Breath of the Wild" was celebrated by fans across the world as Breath of the Wild was one of the most popular games on the Nintendo Switch and was known throughout the gaming community, especially after winning the Game of the Year award at the 2017 Japan Game Awards.[13] Many fans speculate about whether Princess Zelda will be a playable character or if multiplayer would be added, but when asked, Aonuma declined to answer.[14]

When the title of Tears of the Kingdom was revealed during the September 13, 2022 Nintendo Direct, many fans were unsure whether the name referred to tears as in crying, or tears as in rips.[15] Nintendo cleared up the confusion a few days later and confirmed that the name refers to tears as in crying.[16]
